readme.md, before:

# Pure

> Pretty, minimal and fast ZSH prompt

<img src="screenshot.png" width="864">


## Overview

Most prompts are cluttered, ugly and slow. I wanted something visually pleasing that stayed out of my way.

### Why?

- Comes with the perfect prompt character.
  Author went through the whole Unicode range to find it.
- Shows `git` branch and whether it's dirty (with a `*`).
- Indicates when you have unpushed/unpulled `git` commits with up/down arrows. *(Check is done asynchronously!)*
- Prompt character turns red if the last command didn't exit with `0`.
- Command execution time will be displayed if it exceeds the set threshold.
- Username and host only displayed when in an SSH session.
- Shows the current path in the title and the [current folder & command](screenshot-title-cmd.png) when a process is running.
- Support VI-mode indication by reverse prompt symbol (Zsh 5.3+).
- Makes an excellent starting point for your own custom prompt.


## Install

Can be installed with `npm` or manually. Requires Git 2.0.0+ and ZSH 5.2+. Older versions of ZSH are known to work, but they are **not** recommended.

### npm

```console
$ npm install --global pure-prompt
```

That's it. Skip to [Getting started](#getting-started).

### Manually

1. Either…
  - Clone this repo
  - add it as a submodule, or
  - just download [`pure.zsh`](pure.zsh) and [`async.zsh`](async.zsh)

2. Symlink `pure.zsh` to somewhere in [`$fpath`](https://www.refining-linux.org/archives/46-ZSH-Gem-12-Autoloading-functions.html) with the name `prompt_pure_setup`.

3. Symlink `async.zsh` in `$fpath` with the name `async`.

#### Example

```console
$ ln -s "$PWD/pure.zsh" /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/prompt_pure_setup
$ ln -s "$PWD/async.zsh" /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/async
```
*Run `echo $fpath` to see possible locations.*

For a user-specific installation (which would not require escalated privileges), simply add a directory to `$fpath` for that user:

```sh
# .zshenv or .zshrc
fpath=( "$HOME/.zfunctions" $fpath )
```

Then install the theme there:

```console
$ ln -s "$PWD/pure.zsh" "$HOME/.zfunctions/prompt_pure_setup"
$ ln -s "$PWD/async.zsh" "$HOME/.zfunctions/async"
```


## Getting started

Initialize the prompt system (if not so already) and choose `pure`:

```sh
# .zshrc
autoload -U promptinit; promptinit
prompt pure
```


## Options

| Option                           | Description                                                                                    | Default value  |
| :------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| **`PURE_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME`**     | The max execution time of a process before its run time is shown when it exits.                | `5` seconds    |
| **`PURE_GIT_PULL=0`**            | Prevents Pure from checking whether the current Git remote has been updated.                   |                |
| **`PURE_GIT_UNTRACKED_DIRTY=0`** | Do not include untracked files in dirtiness check. Mostly useful on large repos (like WebKit). |                |
| **`PURE_GIT_DELAY_DIRTY_CHECK`** | Time in seconds to delay git dirty checking when `git status` takes > 5 seconds.               | `1800` seconds |
| **`PURE_PROMPT_SYMBOL`**         | Defines the prompt symbol.                                                                     | `❯`            |
| **`PURE_PROMPT_VICMD_SYMBOL`**   | Defines the prompt symbol used when the `vicmd` keymap is active (VI-mode).                    | `❮`            |
| **`PURE_GIT_DOWN_ARROW`**        | Defines the git down arrow symbol.                                                             | `⇣`            |
| **`PURE_GIT_UP_ARROW`**          | Defines the git up arrow symbol.                                                               | `⇡`            |

## Example

```sh
# .zshrc

autoload -U promptinit; promptinit

# optionally define some options
PURE_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME=10

prompt pure
```


## Tips

In the screenshot you see Pure running in [Hyper](https://hyper.is) with the [hyper-snazzy](https://github.com/sindresorhus/hyper-snazzy) theme and Menlo font.

The [Tomorrow Night Eighties](https://github.com/chriskempson/tomorrow-theme) theme with the [Droid Sans Mono](https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/droid-sans-mono) font (15pt) is also a [nice combination](https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure/blob/95ee3e7618c6e2162a1e3cdac2a88a20ac3beb27/screenshot.png).<br>
*Just make sure you have anti-aliasing enabled in your terminal.*

To have commands colorized as seen in the screenshot, install [zsh-syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting).


## Integration

### [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh)

1. Set `ZSH_THEME=""` in your `.zshrc` to disable oh-my-zsh themes.
2. Follow the Pure [Install](#install) instructions.
3. Do not enable the following (incompatible) plugins: `vi-mode`, `virtualenv`.

**NOTE:** `oh-my-zsh` overrides the prompt so Pure must be activated *after* `source $ZSH/oh-my-zsh.sh`.

### [prezto](https://github.com/sorin-ionescu/prezto)

Pure is bundled with Prezto. No need to install it.

Add `prompt pure` to your `~/.zpreztorc`.

### [zim](https://github.com/Eriner/zim)

Pure is bundled with Zim. No need to install it.

Set `zprompt_theme='pure'` in `~/.zimrc`.

### [antigen](https://github.com/zsh-users/antigen)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines (order matters). Do not use the `antigen theme` function.

```sh
antigen bundle mafredri/zsh-async
antigen bundle sindresorhus/pure
```

### [antibody](https://github.com/getantibody/antibody)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines (order matters):

```sh
antibody bundle mafredri/zsh-async
antibody bundle sindresorhus/pure
```

### [zplug](https://github.com/zplug/zplug)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines:

```sh
zplug mafredri/zsh-async, from:github
zplug sindresorhus/pure, use:pure.zsh, from:github, as:theme
```

### [zplugin](https://github.com/zdharma/zplugin)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines (order matters):

```sh
zplugin ice pick"async.zsh" src"pure.zsh"
zplugin light sindresorhus/pure
```

## FAQ

There are currently no FAQs.

See [FAQ Archive](https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure/wiki/FAQ-Archive) for previous FAQs.

## Ports

- **ZSH**
	- [therealklanni/purity](https://github.com/therealklanni/purity) - More compact current working directory, important details on the main prompt line, and extra Git indicators.
 	- [intelfx/pure](https://github.com/intelfx/pure) - Solarized-friendly colors, highly verbose, and fully async Git integration.
	- [dfurnes/purer](https://github.com/dfurnes/purer) - Compact single-line prompt with built-in Vim-mode indicator.
	- [chabou/pure-now](https://github.com/chabou/pure-now) - Fork with [Now](https://zeit.co/now) support
- **Bash**
	- [sapegin/dotfiles](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles) - [Prompt](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles/blob/dd063f9c30de7d2234e8accdb5272a5cc0a3388b/includes/bash_prompt.bash) and [color theme](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles/tree/master/color) for Terminal.app.
- **Fish**
	- [brandonweiss/pure.fish](https://github.com/brandonweiss/pure.fish) - Pure-inspired prompt for Fish. Not intended to have feature parity.
	- [rafaelrinaldi/pure](https://github.com/rafaelrinaldi/pure) - Support for bare Fish and various framework ([Oh-My-Fish](https://github.com//oh-my-fish/oh-my-fish), [Fisherman](https://github.com//fisherman/fisherman), and [Wahoo](https://github.com//bucaran/wahoo)).
- **Rust**
	- [xcambar/purs](https://github.com/xcambar/purs) - Pure-inspired prompt in Rust.
- **Go**
	- [talal/mimir](https://github.com/talal/mimir) - Pure-inspired prompt in Go with Kubernetes and OpenStack cloud support. Not intended to have feature parity.
- **PowerShell**
	- [nickcox/pure-pwsh](https://github.com/nickcox/pure-pwsh/) - PowerShell/PS Core implementation of the Pure prompt.

## Team

[![Sindre Sorhus](https://github.com/sindresorhus.png?size=100)](http://sindresorhus.com) | [![Mathias Fredriksson](https://github.com/mafredri.png?size=100)](https://github.com/mafredri)
---|---
[Sindre Sorhus](https://github.com/sindresorhus) | [Mathias Fredriksson](https://github.com/mafredri)


## License

MIT © [Sindre Sorhus](https://sindresorhus.com)

Commit message:

configure colors with zstyle
Available colors:
- branch
- error
- exec_time
- git_arrow
- path
- root
- success
- user

readme.md, after:

# Pure

> Pretty, minimal and fast ZSH prompt

<img src="screenshot.png" width="864">


## Overview

Most prompts are cluttered, ugly and slow. I wanted something visually pleasing that stayed out of my way.

### Why?

- Comes with the perfect prompt character.
  Author went through the whole Unicode range to find it.
- Shows `git` branch and whether it's dirty (with a `*`).
- Indicates when you have unpushed/unpulled `git` commits with up/down arrows. *(Check is done asynchronously!)*
- Prompt character turns red if the last command didn't exit with `0`.
- Command execution time will be displayed if it exceeds the set threshold.
- Username and host only displayed when in an SSH session.
- Shows the current path in the title and the [current folder & command](screenshot-title-cmd.png) when a process is running.
- Support VI-mode indication by reverse prompt symbol (Zsh 5.3+).
- Makes an excellent starting point for your own custom prompt.


## Install

Can be installed with `npm` or manually. Requires Git 2.0.0+ and ZSH 5.2+. Older versions of ZSH are known to work, but they are **not** recommended.

### npm

```console
$ npm install --global pure-prompt
```

That's it. Skip to [Getting started](#getting-started).

### Manually

1. Either…
  - Clone this repo
  - add it as a submodule, or
  - just download [`pure.zsh`](pure.zsh) and [`async.zsh`](async.zsh)

2. Symlink `pure.zsh` to somewhere in [`$fpath`](https://www.refining-linux.org/archives/46-ZSH-Gem-12-Autoloading-functions.html) with the name `prompt_pure_setup`.

3. Symlink `async.zsh` in `$fpath` with the name `async`.

#### Example

```console
$ ln -s "$PWD/pure.zsh" /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/prompt_pure_setup
$ ln -s "$PWD/async.zsh" /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/async
```
*Run `echo $fpath` to see possible locations.*

For a user-specific installation (which would not require escalated privileges), simply add a directory to `$fpath` for that user:

```sh
# .zshenv or .zshrc
fpath=( "$HOME/.zfunctions" $fpath )
```

Then install the theme there:

```console
$ ln -s "$PWD/pure.zsh" "$HOME/.zfunctions/prompt_pure_setup"
$ ln -s "$PWD/async.zsh" "$HOME/.zfunctions/async"
```


## Getting started

Initialize the prompt system (if not so already) and choose `pure`:

```sh
# .zshrc
autoload -U promptinit; promptinit
prompt pure
```


## Options

| Option                           | Description                                                                                    | Default value  |
| :------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| **`PURE_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME`**     | The max execution time of a process before its run time is shown when it exits.                | `5` seconds    |
| **`PURE_GIT_PULL=0`**            | Prevents Pure from checking whether the current Git remote has been updated.                   |                |
| **`PURE_GIT_UNTRACKED_DIRTY=0`** | Do not include untracked files in dirtiness check. Mostly useful on large repos (like WebKit). |                |
| **`PURE_GIT_DELAY_DIRTY_CHECK`** | Time in seconds to delay git dirty checking when `git status` takes > 5 seconds.               | `1800` seconds |
| **`PURE_PROMPT_SYMBOL`**         | Defines the prompt symbol.                                                                     | `❯`            |
| **`PURE_PROMPT_VICMD_SYMBOL`**   | Defines the prompt symbol used when the `vicmd` keymap is active (VI-mode).                    | `❮`            |
| **`PURE_GIT_DOWN_ARROW`**        | Defines the git down arrow symbol.                                                             | `⇣`            |
| **`PURE_GIT_UP_ARROW`**          | Defines the git up arrow symbol.                                                               | `⇡`            |

## Colors

Colors can be changed by using `zstyle` with the pattern
`:prompt:pure:$color_name` and style `color`. The availaible color names are: `branch`, `error`, `exec_time`, `git_arrow`, `path`, `root`, `success` and
`user`.

## Example

```sh
# .zshrc

autoload -U promptinit; promptinit

# optionally define some options
PURE_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME=10
# change some colors
zstyle :prompt:pure:success color green

prompt pure
```


## Tips

In the screenshot you see Pure running in [Hyper](https://hyper.is) with the [hyper-snazzy](https://github.com/sindresorhus/hyper-snazzy) theme and Menlo font.

The [Tomorrow Night Eighties](https://github.com/chriskempson/tomorrow-theme) theme with the [Droid Sans Mono](https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/droid-sans-mono) font (15pt) is also a [nice combination](https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure/blob/95ee3e7618c6e2162a1e3cdac2a88a20ac3beb27/screenshot.png).<br>
*Just make sure you have anti-aliasing enabled in your terminal.*

To have commands colorized as seen in the screenshot, install [zsh-syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting).


## Integration

### [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh)

1. Set `ZSH_THEME=""` in your `.zshrc` to disable oh-my-zsh themes.
2. Follow the Pure [Install](#install) instructions.
3. Do not enable the following (incompatible) plugins: `vi-mode`, `virtualenv`.

**NOTE:** `oh-my-zsh` overrides the prompt so Pure must be activated *after* `source $ZSH/oh-my-zsh.sh`.

### [prezto](https://github.com/sorin-ionescu/prezto)

Pure is bundled with Prezto. No need to install it.

Add `prompt pure` to your `~/.zpreztorc`.

### [zim](https://github.com/Eriner/zim)

Pure is bundled with Zim. No need to install it.

Set `zprompt_theme='pure'` in `~/.zimrc`.

### [antigen](https://github.com/zsh-users/antigen)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines (order matters). Do not use the `antigen theme` function.

```sh
antigen bundle mafredri/zsh-async
antigen bundle sindresorhus/pure
```

### [antibody](https://github.com/getantibody/antibody)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines (order matters):

```sh
antibody bundle mafredri/zsh-async
antibody bundle sindresorhus/pure
```

### [zplug](https://github.com/zplug/zplug)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines:

```sh
zplug mafredri/zsh-async, from:github
zplug sindresorhus/pure, use:pure.zsh, from:github, as:theme
```

### [zplugin](https://github.com/zdharma/zplugin)

Update your `.zshrc` file with the following two lines (order matters):

```sh
zplugin ice pick"async.zsh" src"pure.zsh"
zplugin light sindresorhus/pure
```

## FAQ

There are currently no FAQs.

See [FAQ Archive](https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure/wiki/FAQ-Archive) for previous FAQs.

## Ports

- **ZSH**
	- [therealklanni/purity](https://github.com/therealklanni/purity) - More compact current working directory, important details on the main prompt line, and extra Git indicators.
 	- [intelfx/pure](https://github.com/intelfx/pure) - Solarized-friendly colors, highly verbose, and fully async Git integration.
	- [dfurnes/purer](https://github.com/dfurnes/purer) - Compact single-line prompt with built-in Vim-mode indicator.
	- [chabou/pure-now](https://github.com/chabou/pure-now) - Fork with [Now](https://zeit.co/now) support
- **Bash**
	- [sapegin/dotfiles](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles) - [Prompt](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles/blob/dd063f9c30de7d2234e8accdb5272a5cc0a3388b/includes/bash_prompt.bash) and [color theme](https://github.com/sapegin/dotfiles/tree/master/color) for Terminal.app.
- **Fish**
	- [brandonweiss/pure.fish](https://github.com/brandonweiss/pure.fish) - Pure-inspired prompt for Fish. Not intended to have feature parity.
	- [rafaelrinaldi/pure](https://github.com/rafaelrinaldi/pure) - Support for bare Fish and various framework ([Oh-My-Fish](https://github.com//oh-my-fish/oh-my-fish), [Fisherman](https://github.com//fisherman/fisherman), and [Wahoo](https://github.com//bucaran/wahoo)).
- **Rust**
	- [xcambar/purs](https://github.com/xcambar/purs) - Pure-inspired prompt in Rust.
- **Go**
	- [talal/mimir](https://github.com/talal/mimir) - Pure-inspired prompt in Go with Kubernetes and OpenStack cloud support. Not intended to have feature parity.
- **PowerShell**
	- [nickcox/pure-pwsh](https://github.com/nickcox/pure-pwsh/) - PowerShell/PS Core implementation of the Pure prompt.

## Team

[![Sindre Sorhus](https://github.com/sindresorhus.png?size=100)](http://sindresorhus.com) | [![Mathias Fredriksson](https://github.com/mafredri.png?size=100)](https://github.com/mafredri)
---|---
[Sindre Sorhus](https://github.com/sindresorhus) | [Mathias Fredriksson](https://github.com/mafredri)


## License

MIT © [Sindre Sorhus](https://sindresorhus.com)
